February 20, 2020 4:32 PM
# Hi everyone! Welcome to Luis Rodrigos Repository for the Project of Units 4 and 5!
## Project: "ProyectoUni5"

### Objetive
This repository contains the scripts, needed to do some simple population genetics analyses on a wolves SNP database generated by [Schweizer *et al* 2015](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/mec.13467).

### Workflow

The workflow involved in these analyses are the following:

1. **Downloading the raw data from [here](https://datadryad.org/stash/dataset/doi:10.5061/dryad.8g0s3).**
2. **Do the exercises enlisted [here](https://github.com/u-genoma/BioinfinvRepro/blob/master/Unidad5/Unidad5-Pop_genetics_software_especializado.md) in `VCF-Tools`**
3. **Do a PCA figure and an extra additional one in `R`**

There is a single script for each of this steps, assuring the reproducibility of the project. And a general pipeline script to run all of them together.

### Repository structure

This repository is divided in the following elements:

+ `bin/` contains all the scripts.
+ `data/`, is where all the input and output files are going to be saved.
+ `R-Report_3_Figures.html` file is the report of the R script. It is NOT generated from the script itself, it was compiled on R-Studio.

**If you cloned this repository from GitHub all the data and analyses has already been run. HOWEVER the pipeline of this repository is designed to work automatically by itself. The only requiste is for your working directory to have two folders: `bin`, `data` and to place all the scripts in `bin`**

**Also note that is highly suggested to OPEN each script before trying to run them. There you will find the software needed for each analysis and how to install them**

### Scripts and how to run them
In the `bin/` directory you will find several bash `.sh` scripts:

+ 0_Pipeline.sh
+ 1_Data_download.sh
+ 2_Exercises.sh
+ 3_Figures.R

To run any shell script use the `bash <script>.sh` command. The R script runs with the following command `Rscript 3_Figures.R`. **Note that for each script to run  properly the ones before must had been run previously**. In this scence I highly suggest you to run the Pipeline:

```
bash 0_Pipeline.sh
```

This will make all the work by itself.

### Results:

Results from `2_Exercises.sh` will be printed directly in the screen. There each question will be addresed following by the answer product from each `VCF-Tools` command. R Plots from `3_Figures.R` will be designed automatically and printed on home directory (Where this script is saved).


